=head2 Plugin C<nginx>

This plugin collects the number of connections and requests handled by the
C<nginx daemon> (speak: engineE<nbsp>X), a HTTP and mail server/proxy. It
queries the page provided by the C<ngx_http_stub_status_module> module, which
isn't compiled by default. Please refer to
L<http://wiki.codemongers.com/NginxStubStatusModule> for more information on
how to compile and configure nginx and this module.

The configuration of the I<nginx> plugin consists of one or more
C<E<lt>InstanceE<nbsp>/E<gt>> blocks. Each block requires one string argument
as the instance name.  For example:

 <Plugin "nginx">
   <Instance "www1">
     URL "http://www1.example.com/nginx_status"
   </Instance>
   <Instance "www2">
     URL "http://www2.example.com/nginx_status"
   </Instance>
 </Plugin>

In order for the plugin to work correctly, each instance name must be unique.
This is not enforced by the plugin and it is your responsibility to ensure it.

The following options are accepted within each I<Instance> block:

=over 4

=item B<URL> I<http://host/nginx_status>

Sets the URL of the C<ngx_http_stub_status_module> output.

=item B<User> I<Username>

Optional user name needed for authentication.

=item B<Password> I<Password>

Optional password needed for authentication.

=item B<VerifyPeer> B<true|false>

Enable or disable peer SSL certificate verification. See
L<http://curl.haxx.se/docs/sslcerts.html> for details. Enabled by default.

=item B<VerifyHost> B<true|false>

Enable or disable peer host name verification. If enabled, the plugin checks
if the C<Common Name> or a C<Subject Alternate Name> field of the SSL
certificate matches the host name provided by the B<URL> option. If this
identity check fails, the connection is aborted. Obviously, only works when
connecting to a SSL enabled server. Enabled by default.

=item B<CACert> I<File>

File that holds one or more SSL certificates. If you want to use HTTPS you will
possibly need this option. What CA certificates come bundled with C<libcurl>
and are checked by default depends on the distribution you use.

=item B<SSLCiphers> I<list of ciphers>

Specifies which ciphers to use in the connection. The list of ciphers
must specify valid ciphers. See
L<http://www.openssl.org/docs/apps/ciphers.html> for details.

=item B<Timeout> I<Milliseconds>

The B<Timeout> option sets the overall timeout for HTTP requests to B<URL>, in
milliseconds. By default, the configured B<Interval> is used to set the
timeout.

=item B<Label> I<Key> I<Value>

Append the label I<Key>=I<Value> to the submitting metrics.

=item B<Interval> I<Interval>

Sets the interval (in seconds) in which the values will be collected from this
URL. By default the global B<Interval> setting will be used.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<collectd(1)>,
L<collectd.conf(5)>

=cut
