=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

ncollectd-disk - Documentation of ncollectd's C<Cpu disk>

=head2 Plugin C<disk>

The C<disk> plugin collects information about the usage of physical disks and
logical disks (partitions). Values collected are the number of octets written
to and read from a disk or partition, the number of read/write operations
issued to the disk and a rather complex "time" it took for these commands to be
issued.

Using the following two options you can ignore some disks or configure the
collection only of specific disks.

=over 4

=item B<Disk> I<Name>

Select the disk I<Name>. Whether it is collected or ignored depends on the
B<IgnoreSelected> setting, see below. As with other plugins that use the
daemon's ignorelist functionality, a string that starts and ends with a slash
is interpreted as a regular expression. Examples:

  Disk "sdd"
  Disk "/hda[34]/"

See F</"IGNORELISTS"> for details.

=item B<IgnoreSelected> B<true>|B<false>

Sets whether selected disks, i.E<nbsp>e. the ones matches by any of the B<Disk>
statements, are ignored or if all other disks are ignored. The behavior
(hopefully) is intuitive: If no B<Disk> option is configured, all disks are
collected. If at least one B<Disk> option is given and no B<IgnoreSelected> or
set to B<false>, B<only> matching disks will be collected. If B<IgnoreSelected>
is set to B<true>, all disks are collected B<except> the ones matched.

=item B<UseBSDName> B<true>|B<false>

Whether to use the device's "BSD Name", on MacE<nbsp>OSE<nbsp>X, instead of the
default major/minor numbers. Requires collectd to be built with Apple's
IOKitLib support.

=item B<UdevNameAttr> I<Attribute>

Attempt to override disk instance name with the value of a specified udev
attribute when built with B<libudev>.  If the attribute is not defined for the
given device, the default name is used. Example:

  UdevNameAttr "DM_NAME"

Please note that using an attribute that does not differentiate between the
whole disk and its particular partitions (like B<ID_SERIAL>) will result in
data about the whole disk and each partition being mixed together incorrectly.
In this case, you can use B<ID_COLLECTD> attribute that is provided by
I<contrib/99-storage-collectd.rules> udev rule file instead.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<collectd(1)>,
L<collectd.conf(5)>

=cut
