
=head2 Plugin C<smart>

The C<smart> plugin collects SMART information from physical
disks. Values collectd include temperature, power cycle count, poweron
time and bad sectors. Also, all SMART attributes are collected along
with the normalized current value, the worst value, the threshold and
a human readable value. The plugin can also collect SMART attributes
for NVMe disks (present in accordance with NVMe 1.4 spec) and Additional
SMART Attributes from Intel® NVMe disks.

Using the following two options you can ignore some disks or configure the
collection only of specific disks.

=over 4

=item B<Disk> I<Name>

Select the disk I<Name>. Whether it is collected or ignored depends on the
B<IgnoreSelected> setting, see below. As with other plugins that use the
daemon's ignorelist functionality, a string that starts and ends with a slash
is interpreted as a regular expression. Examples:

  Disk "sdd"
  Disk "/hda[34]/"
  Disk "nvme0n1"

See F</"IGNORELISTS"> for details.

=item B<IgnoreSelected> B<true>|B<false>

Sets whether selected disks, i.E<nbsp>e. the ones matches by any of the B<Disk>
statements, are ignored or if all other disks are ignored. The behavior
(hopefully) is intuitive: If no B<Disk> option is configured, all disks are
collected. If at least one B<Disk> option is given and no B<IgnoreSelected> or
set to B<false>, B<only> matching disks will be collected. If B<IgnoreSelected>
is set to B<true>, all disks are collected B<except> the ones matched.

=item B<IgnoreSleepMode> B<true>|B<false>

Normally, the C<smart> plugin will ignore disks that are reported to be asleep.
This option disables the sleep mode check and allows the plugin to collect data
from these disks anyway. This is useful in cases where libatasmart mistakenly
reports disks as asleep because it has not been updated to incorporate support
for newer idle states in the ATA spec.

=item B<UseSerial> B<true>|B<false>

A disk's kernel name (e.g., sda) can change from one boot to the next. If this
option is enabled, the C<smart> plugin will use the disk's serial number (e.g.,
HGST_HUH728080ALE600_2EJ8VH8X) instead of the kernel name as the key for
storing data. This ensures that the data for a given disk will be kept together
even if the kernel name changes.

=back

