=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

ncollectdmon - Monitoring daemon for ncollectd

=head1 SYNOPSIS

ncollectdmon I<[options]> [-- I<ncollectd options>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

ncollectdmon is a small "wrapper" daemon which starts and monitors the ncollectd
daemon. If collectd terminates it will automatically be restarted, unless
ncollectdmon was told to shut it down.

=head1 OPTIONS

ncollectdmon supports the following options:

=over 4

=item B<-c> I<E<lt>pathE<gt>>

Specify the pathname of the ncollectd binary. You may either specify an
absolute path or simply the name of the binary in which case the B<PATH>
variable will be searched for it. The default is "B<ncollectd>".

=item B<-P> I<E<lt>pid-fileE<gt>>

Specify the pid file. The default is "I</var/run/ncollectdmon.pid>".

=item B<-h>

Output usage information and exit.

=item I<ncollectd options>

Specify options that are passed on to ncollectd. If it is not already included,
B<-f> will be added to these options. See L<ncollectd(1)>.

=back

=head1 SIGNALS

B<ncollectdmon> accepts the following signals:

=over 4

=item B<SIGINT>, B<SIGTERM>

These signals cause B<ncollectdmon> to terminate B<ncollectd>, wait for its
termination and then shut down.

=item B<SIGHUP>

This signal causes B<ncollectdmon> to terminate B<ncollectd>, wait for its
termination and then restart it.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<ncollectd(1)>,
L<ncollectd.conf(5)>,

=head1 AUTHOR

ncollectd has been written by Florian Forster E<lt>octo at collectd.orgE<gt>
and many contributors (see `AUTHORS').

ncollectdmon has been written by Sebastian Harl E<lt>sh@tokkee.orgE<gt>.

=cut
