=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

ncollectd-cpu - Documentation of ncollectd's C<Cpu plugin>

=head2 Plugin C<cpu>

The I<CPU plugin> collects CPU usage metrics. By default, CPU usage is reported
as Jiffies, using the C<cpu> type. Two aggregations are available:

=over 4

=item *

Sum, per-state, over all CPUs installed in the system; and

=item *

Sum, per-CPU, over all non-idle states of a CPU, creating an "active" state.

=back

The two aggregations can be combined, leading to I<collectd> only emitting a
single "active" metric for the entire system. As soon as one of these
aggregations (or both) is enabled, the I<cpu plugin> will report a percentage,
rather than Jiffies. In addition, you can request individual, per-state,
per-CPU metrics to be reported as percentage.

The following configuration options are available:

=over 4

=item B<ReportByState> B<true>|B<false>

When set to B<true>, the default, reports per-state metrics, e.g. "system",
"user" and "idle".
When set to B<false>, aggregates (sums) all I<non-idle> states into one
"active" metric.

=item B<ReportByCpu> B<true>|B<false>

When set to B<true>, the default, reports per-CPU (per-core) metrics.
When set to B<false>, instead of reporting metrics for individual CPUs, only a
global sum of CPU states is emitted.

=item B<ValuesPercentage> B<false>|B<true>

This option is only considered when both, B<ReportByCpu> and B<ReportByState>
are set to B<true>. In this case, by default, metrics will be reported as
Jiffies. By setting this option to B<true>, you can request percentage values
in the un-aggregated (per-CPU, per-state) mode as well.

=item B<ReportNumCpu> B<false>|B<true>

When set to B<true>, reports the number of available CPUs.
Defaults to B<false>.

=item B<ReportGuestState> B<false>|B<true>

When set to B<true>, reports the "guest" and "guest_nice" CPU states.
Defaults to B<false>.

=item B<ReportTopology> B<false>|B<true>
When set to B<true> in Linux, reports the cpu topology as labels:
I<node>, I<code>, I<socket>, I<book> and I<drawer>.
Defaults to B<false>.

=item B<SubtractGuestState> B<false>|B<true>

This option is only considered when B<ReportGuestState> is set to B<true>.
"guest" and "guest_nice" are included in respectively "user" and "nice".
If set to B<true>, "guest" will be subtracted from "user" and "guest_nice"
will be subtracted from "nice".
Defaults to B<true>.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<collectd(1)>,
L<collectd.conf(5)>

=cut
