=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

ncollectd-filecount - Documentation of ncollectd's C<Filecount plugin>

=head2 Plugin C<filecount>

The C<filecount> plugin counts the number of files in a certain directory (and
its subdirectories) and their combined size. The configuration is very straight
forward:

  <Plugin "filecount">
    <Directory "/var/qmail/queue/mess">
      MetricFilesCount "qmail_messages"
    </Directory>
    <Directory "/var/qmail/queue/todo">
      MetricFilesCount "qmail_todo"
    </Directory>
    <Directory "/var/lib/php5">
      MetricFilesCount "php5_sessions"
      Name "sess_*"
    </Directory>
  </Plugin>

The example above counts the number of files in QMail's queue directories and
the number of PHP5 sessions. Jfiy: The "todo" queue holds the messages that
QMail has not yet looked at, the "message" queue holds the messages that were
classified into "local" and "remote".

As you can see, the configuration consists of one or more C<Directory> blocks,
each of which specifies a directory in which to count the files. Within those
blocks, the following options are recognized:

=over 4

=item B<MetricFilesSize> I<Metric>

Use I<Metric> as the metric name to dispatch files combined size, the type of
the metric is B<gauge>.

=item B<MetricFilesCount> I<Metric>

Use I<Metric> as the metric name to dispatch number of files, the type of the
metric is B<gauge>.

=item B<Label> I<Key> I<Value>

Append the label I<Key>=I<Value> to the submitting metrics.

=item B<Name> I<Pattern>

Only count files that match I<Pattern>, where I<Pattern> is a shell-like
wildcard as understood by L<fnmatch(3)>. Only the B<filename> is checked
against the pattern, not the entire path. In case this makes it easier for you:
This option has been named after the B<-name> parameter to L<find(1)>.

=item B<MTime> I<Age>

Count only files of a specific age: If I<Age> is greater than zero, only files
that haven't been touched in the last I<Age> seconds are counted. If I<Age> is
a negative number, this is inversed. For example, if B<-60> is specified, only
files that have been modified in the last minute will be counted.

The number can also be followed by a "multiplier" to easily specify a larger
timespan. When given in this notation, the argument must in quoted, i.E<nbsp>e.
must be passed as string. So the B<-60> could also be written as B<"-1m"> (one
minute). Valid multipliers are C<s> (second), C<m> (minute), C<h> (hour), C<d>
(day), C<w> (week), and C<y> (year). There is no "month" multiplier. You can
also specify fractional numbers, e.E<nbsp>g. B<"0.5d"> is identical to
B<"12h">.

=item B<Size> I<Size>

Count only files of a specific size. When I<Size> is a positive number, only
files that are at least this big are counted. If I<Size> is a negative number,
this is inversed, i.E<nbsp>e. only files smaller than the absolute value of
I<Size> are counted.

As with the B<MTime> option, a "multiplier" may be added. For a detailed
description see above. Valid multipliers here are C<b> (byte), C<k> (kilobyte),
C<m> (megabyte), C<g> (gigabyte), C<t> (terabyte), and C<p> (petabyte). Please
note that there are 1000 bytes in a kilobyte, not 1024.

=item B<Recursive> I<true>|I<false>

Controls whether or not to recurse into subdirectories. Enabled by default.

=item B<IncludeHidden> I<true>|I<false>

Controls whether or not to include "hidden" files and directories in the count.
"Hidden" files and directories are those, whose name begins with a dot.
Defaults to I<false>, i.e. by default hidden files and directories are ignored.

=item B<RegularOnly> I<true>|I<false>

Controls whether or not to include only regular files in the count.
Defaults to I<true>, i.e. by default non regular files are ignored.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<collectd(1)>,
L<collectd.conf(5)>

=cut
