=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

ncollectd-processes - Documentation of ncollectd's C<Processes plugin>

=head2 Plugin C<processes>

Collects information about processes of local system.

By default, with no process matches configured, only general statistics is
collected: the number of processes in each state and fork rate.

Process matches can be configured by B<Process> and B<ProcessMatch> options.
These may also be a block in which further options may be specified.

The statistics collected for matched processes are:
 - size of the resident segment size (RSS)
 - user- and system-time used
 - number of processes
 - number of threads
 - number of open files (under Linux)
 - number of memory mapped files (under Linux)
 - io data (where available)
 - context switches (under Linux)
 - minor and major pagefaults
 - Delay Accounting information (Linux only, requires libmnl)

B<Synopsis:>

 <Plugin processes>
   CollectFileDescriptor  true
   CollectContextSwitch   true
   CollectDelayAccounting false
   Process "name"
   ProcessMatch "name" "regex"
   <Process "collectd">
     CollectFileDescriptor  false
     CollectContextSwitch   false
     CollectDelayAccounting true
   </Process>
   <ProcessMatch "name" "regex">
     CollectFileDescriptor false
     CollectContextSwitch true
   </ProcessMatch>
 </Plugin>

=over 4

=item B<Process> I<Name>

Select more detailed statistics of processes matching this name.

Some platforms have a limit on the length of process names.
I<Name> must stay below this limit.

=item B<ProcessMatch> I<name> I<regex>

Select more detailed statistics of processes matching the specified I<regex>
(see L<regex(7)> for details). The statistics of all matching processes are
summed up and dispatched to the daemon using the specified I<name> as an
identifier. This allows one to "group" several processes together.
I<name> must not contain slashes.

=item B<CollectContextSwitch> I<Boolean>

Collect the number of context switches for matched processes.
Disabled by default.

=item B<CollectDelayAccounting> I<Boolean>

If enabled, collect Linux Delay Accounding information for matching processes.
Delay Accounting provides the time processes wait for the CPU to become
available, for I/O operations to finish, for pages to be swapped in and for
freed pages to be reclaimed. The metrics are reported as "seconds per second"
using the C<delay_rate> type, e.g. C<delay_rate-delay-cpu>.
Disabled by default.

This option is only available on Linux, requires the C<libmnl> library and
requires the C<CAP_NET_ADMIN> capability at runtime.

=item B<CollectFileDescriptor> I<Boolean>

Collect number of file descriptors of matched processes.
Disabled by default.

=item B<CollectMemoryMaps> I<Boolean>

Collect the number of memory mapped files of the process.
The limit for this number is configured via F</proc/sys/vm/max_map_count> in
the Linux kernel.

=back

The B<CollectContextSwitch>, B<CollectDelayAccounting>,
B<CollectFileDescriptor> and B<CollectMemoryMaps> options may be used inside
B<Process> and B<ProcessMatch> blocks. When used there, these options affect
reporting the corresponding processes only. Outside of B<Process> and
B<ProcessMatch> blocks these options set the default value for subsequent
matches.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<collectd(1)>,
L<collectd.conf(5)>

=cut
