=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

ncollectd-swap - Documentation of ncollectd's C<Swap plugin>

=head2 Plugin C<swap>

The I<Swap plugin> collects information about used and available swap space. On
I<Linux> and I<Solaris>, the following options are available:

=over 4

=item B<ReportByDevice> B<false>|B<true>

Configures how to report physical swap devices. If set to B<false> (the
default), the summary over all swap devices is reported only, i.e. the globally
used and available space over all devices. If B<true> is configured, the used
and available space of each device will be reported separately.

This option is only available if the I<Swap plugin> can read C</proc/swaps>
(under Linux) or use the L<swapctl(2)> mechanism (under I<Solaris>).

=item B<ReportBytes> B<false>|B<true>

When enabled, the I<swap I/O> is reported in bytes. When disabled, the default,
I<swap I/O> is reported in pages. This option is available under Linux only.

=item B<ValuesAbsolute> B<true>|B<false>

Enables or disables reporting of absolute swap metrics, i.e. number of I<bytes>
available and used. Defaults to B<true>.

=item B<ValuesPercentage> B<false>|B<true>

Enables or disables reporting of relative swap metrics, i.e. I<percent>
available and free. Defaults to B<false>.

This is useful for deploying I<collectd> in a heterogeneous environment, where
swap sizes differ and you want to specify generic thresholds or similar.

=item B<ReportIO> B<true>|B<false>

Enables or disables reporting swap IO. Defaults to B<true>.

This is useful for the cases when swap IO is not neccessary, is not available,
or is not reliable.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<collectd(1)>,
L<collectd.conf(5)>

=cut
