=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

ncollectd-haproxy - Documentation of ncollectd's C<haproxy plugin>

=head2 Plugin C<haproxy>

The haproxy plugin uses the B<libcurl> (L<http://curl.haxx.se/>) to read HAProxy
metrics over http. Also can retrive HAProxy metrics from an unix socket.

  <Plugin haproxy>
    <Instance "80">
      URL "http://127.0.0.1/haproxy?stats;csv"
    </Instance>
    <Instance "socket">
      SocketPath  "/var/run/haproxy.sock"
    </Instance>
  </Plugin>

In the B<Plugin> block, there may be one or more B<Instance> blocks.
The following options are valid within B<Instacne> blocks:

=over 4

=item B<Label> I<key> I<value>

Append the label I<Key>=I<Value> to the submitting metrics. Can appear
multiple time in the B<Instance> block.

=item B<SocketPath> I<path>

Path to HAProxy stats socket.

=item B<URL> I<URL>

URL of the HAProxy csv stats.

=item B<User> I<Name>

Username to use if authorization is required to read the url.

=item B<Password> I<Password>

Password to use if authorization is required to read the url.

=item B<Digest> B<true>|B<false>

Enable HTTP digest authentication.

=item B<VerifyPeer> B<true>|B<false>

Enable or disable peer SSL certificate verification. See
L<http://curl.haxx.se/docs/sslcerts.html> for details. Enabled by default.

=item B<VerifyHost> B<true>|B<false>

Enable or disable peer host name verification. If enabled, the plugin checks if
the C<Common Name> or a C<Subject Alternate Name> field of the SSL certificate
matches the host name provided by the B<URL> option. If this identity check
fails, the connection is aborted. Obviously, only works when connecting to a
SSL enabled server. Enabled by default.

=item B<CACert> I<file>

File that holds one or more SSL certificates. If you want to use HTTPS you will
possibly need this option. What CA certificates come bundled with C<libcurl>
and are checked by default depends on the distribution you use.

=item B<Header> I<Header>

A HTTP header to add to the request. Multiple headers are added if this option
is specified more than once.

=item B<Interval> I<Interval>

Sets the interval (in seconds) in which the values will be collected from this
URL. By default the global B<Interval> setting will be used.


=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<ncollectd(1)>,
L<ncollectd.conf(5)>

=cut
