ncollectd-apache(5) - File Formats Manual

# NAME

**ncollectd-apache** - Documentation of ncollectd's apache plugin

# SYNOPSIS

	load-plugin apache
	plugin apache {
	    instance "host" {
	        url "http://host/mod_status?auto"
	        user "username"
	        user-env "env-name"
	        password "password"
	        password-env "env-name"
	        verify-peer true|false
	        verify-host true|false
	        ca-cert "file"
	        ssl-ciphers "list of ciphers"
	        timeout seconds
	        label "key" "value"
	        interval seconds
	        filter {
	            ...
	        }
	    }
	}

# DESCRIPTION

To configure the **apache** plugin you first need to configure the Apache
webserver correctly. The Apache-plugin *mod\_status needs* to be loaded and
working and the **ExtendedStatus** directive needs to be **enabled**. You can use
the following snipped to base your Apache config upon:

	ExtendedStatus on
	<IfModule mod_status.c>
	    <Location /mod_status>
	        SetHandler server-status
	    </Location>
	</IfModule>

Since its **mod\_status** module is very similar to Apache's, **lighttpd** is
also supported. It introduces a new field, called *BusyServers*, to count the
number of currently connected clients. This field is also supported.

The configuration of the **apache** plugin consists of one or more
**instance** blocks. Each block requires one string argument
as the instance name. For example:

	plugin "apache" {
	    instance "www1" {
	        url "http://www1.example.com/mod_status?auto"
	    }
	    instance "www2" {
	        url "http://www2.example.com/mod_status?auto"
	    }
	}

The instance name will be used as *instance* label in the metrics.
In order for the plugin to work correctly, each instance name must be unique.
This is not enforced by the plugin and it is your responsibility to ensure it.

The following options are accepted within each **instance** block:

**url** *http://host/mod\_status?auto*

> Sets the URL of the *mod\_status* output. This needs to be the output generated
> by **ExtendedStatus on** and it needs to be the machine readable output
> generated by appending the *?auto* argument. This option is *mandatory*.

**user** *username*

> Optional user name needed for authentication.

**user-env** *env-name*

> Get the user name needed for authentication from the environment variable *env-name*.

**password** *password*

> Optional password needed for authentication.

**password-env** *password*

> Get the password needed for authentication from the environment variable *env-name*.

**verify&#45;peer** **true|false**

> Enable or disable peer SSL certificate verification. See
> [http://curl.haxx.se/docs/sslcerts.html](http://curl.haxx.se/docs/sslcerts.html)
> for details. Enabled by default.

**verify-host** *true|false*

> Enable or disable peer host name verification. If enabled, the plugin checks
> if the *Common Name* or a *Subject Alternate Name* field of the SSL
> certificate matches the host name provided by the **URL** option. If this
> identity check fails, the connection is aborted. Obviously, only works when
> connecting to a SSL enabled server. Enabled by default.

**ca-cert** *file*

> File that holds one or more SSL certificates. If you want to use HTTPS you will
> possibly need this option. What CA certificates come bundled with *libcurl*
> and are checked by default depends on the distribution you use.

**ssl-ciphers** *list of ciphers*

> Specifies which ciphers to use in the connection. The list of ciphers
> must specify valid ciphers. See
> [http://www.openssl.org/docs/apps/ciphers.html](http://www.openssl.org/docs/apps/ciphers.html)
> for details.

**timeout** *seconds*

> The **timeout** option sets the overall timeout for HTTP requests to **URL**, in
> seconds. By default, the configured **interval** is used to set the timeout.

**label** *key* *value*

> Append the label *key*=*value* to the submitting metrics.

**interval** *seconds*

> Sets the interval (in seconds) in which the values will be collected from this
> URL. By default the global **interval** setting will be used.

**filter**

> Configure a filter to modify or drop the metrics. See **FILTER CONFIGURATION** in
> ncollectd.conf(5)

# SEE ALSO

ncollectd(1),
ncollectd.conf(5)

ncollectd @NCOLLECTD\_VERSION@ - @NCOLLECTD\_DATE@
