=head2 Plugin C<interface>

=over 4

=item B<Interface> I<Interface>

Select this interface. By default these interfaces will then be collected. For
a more detailed description see B<IgnoreSelected> below.

See F</"IGNORELISTS"> for details.

=item B<IgnoreSelected> I<true>|I<false>

If no configuration is given, the B<interface>-plugin will collect data from
all interfaces. This may not be practical, especially for loopback- and
similar interfaces. Thus, you can use the B<Interface>-option to pick the
interfaces you're interested in. Sometimes, however, it's easier/preferred
to collect all interfaces I<except> a few ones. This option enables you to
do that: By setting B<IgnoreSelected> to I<true> the effect of
B<Interface> is inverted: All selected interfaces are ignored and all
other interfaces are collected.

It is possible to use regular expressions to match interface names, if the
name is surrounded by I</.../> and collectd was compiled with support for
regexps. This is useful if there's a need to collect (or ignore) data
for a group of interfaces that are similarly named, without the need to
explicitly list all of them (especially useful if the list is dynamic).
Example:

 Interface "lo"
 Interface "/^veth/"
 Interface "/^tun[0-9]+/"
 IgnoreSelected "true"

This will ignore the loopback interface, all interfaces with names starting
with I<veth> and all interfaces with names starting with I<tun> followed by
at least one digit.

=item B<ReportInactive> I<true>|I<false>

When set to I<false>, only interfaces with non-zero traffic will be
reported. Note that the check is done by looking into whether a
package was sent at any time from boot and the corresponding counter
is non-zero. So, if the interface has been sending data in the past
since boot, but not during the reported time-interval, it will still
be reported.

The default value is I<true> and results in collection of the data
from all interfaces that are selected by B<Interface> and
B<IgnoreSelected> options.

=item B<UniqueName> I<true>|I<false>

Interface name is not unique on Solaris (KSTAT), interface name is unique
only within a module/instance. Following tuple is considered unique:
   (ks_module, ks_instance, ks_name)
If this option is set to true, interface name contains above three fields
separated by an underscore. For more info on KSTAT, visit
L<http://docs.oracle.com/cd/E23824_01/html/821-1468/kstat-3kstat.html#REFMAN3Ekstat-3kstat>

This option is only available on Solaris.

=back


