=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

ncollectd-tcpconns - Documentation of ncollectd's C<Tcpconns plugin>

=head2 Plugin C<tcpconns>

The C<tcpconns plugin> counts the number of currently established TCP
connections based on the local port and/or the remote port. Since there may be
a lot of connections the default if to count all connections with a local port,
for which a listening socket is opened. You can use the following options to
fine-tune the ports you are interested in:

=over 4

=item B<ListeningPorts> I<true>|I<false>

If this option is set to I<true>, statistics for all local ports for which a
listening socket exists are collected. The default depends on B<LocalPort> and
B<RemotePort> (see below): If no port at all is specifically selected, the
default is to collect listening ports. If specific ports (no matter if local or
remote ports) are selected, this option defaults to I<false>, i.E<nbsp>e. only
the selected ports will be collected unless this option is set to I<true>
specifically.

=item B<LocalPort> I<Port>

Count the connections to a specific local port. This can be used to see how
many connections are handled by a specific daemon, e.E<nbsp>g. the mailserver.
You have to specify the port in numeric form, so for the mailserver example
you'd need to set B<25>.

=item B<RemotePort> I<Port>

Count the connections to a specific remote port. This is useful to see how
much a remote service is used. This is most useful if you want to know how many
connections a local service has opened to remote services, e.E<nbsp>g. how many
connections a mail server or news server has to other mail or news servers, or
how many connections a web proxy holds to web servers. You have to give the
port in numeric form.

=item B<AllPortsSummary> I<true>|I<false>

If this option is set to I<true> a summary of statistics from all connections
are collected. This option defaults to I<false>.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<collectd(1)>,
L<collectd.conf(5)>

=cut
