=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

ncollectd-sigrok - Documentation of ncollectd's C<sigrok plugin>

=head2 Plugin C<sigrok>

The I<sigrok plugin> uses I<libsigrok> to retrieve measurements from any device
supported by the L<sigrok|http://sigrok.org/> project.

B<Synopsis>

 <Plugin sigrok>
   LogLevel 3
   <Device "AC Voltage">
      Driver "fluke-dmm"
      MinimumInterval 10
      Conn "/dev/ttyUSB2"
   </Device>
   <Device "Sound Level">
      Driver "cem-dt-885x"
      Conn "/dev/ttyUSB1"
   </Device>
 </Plugin>

=over 4

=item B<LogLevel> B<0-5>

The I<sigrok> logging level to pass on to the I<collectd> log, as a number
between B<0> and B<5> (inclusive). These levels correspond to C<None>,
C<Errors>, C<Warnings>, C<Informational>, C<Debug >and C<Spew>, respectively.
The default is B<2> (C<Warnings>). The I<sigrok> log messages, regardless of
their level, are always submitted to I<collectd> at its INFO log level.

=item E<lt>B<Device> I<Name>E<gt>

A sigrok-supported device, uniquely identified by this section's options. The
I<Name> is passed to I<collectd> as the I<device> label.

=item B<Driver> I<DriverName>

The sigrok driver to use for this device.

=item B<Conn> I<ConnectionSpec>

If the device cannot be auto-discovered, or more than one might be discovered
by the driver, I<ConnectionSpec> specifies the connection string to the device.
It can be of the form of a device path (e.g.E<nbsp>C</dev/ttyUSB2>), or, in
case of a non-serial USB-connected device, the USB I<VendorID>B<.>I<ProductID>
separated by a period (e.g.E<nbsp>C<0403.6001>). A USB device can also be
specified as I<Bus>B<.>I<Address> (e.g.E<nbsp>C<1.41>).

=item B<SerialComm> I<SerialSpec>

For serial devices with non-standard port settings, this option can be used
to specify them in a form understood by I<sigrok>, e.g.E<nbsp>C<9600/8n1>.
This should not be necessary; drivers know how to communicate with devices they
support.

=item B<MinimumInterval> I<Seconds>

Specifies the minimum time between measurement dispatches to I<collectd>, in
seconds. Since some I<sigrok> supported devices can acquire measurements many
times per second, it may be necessary to throttle these. For example, the
I<RRD plugin> cannot process writes more than once per second.

The default B<MinimumInterval> is B<0>, meaning measurements received from the
device are always dispatched to I<collectd>. When throttled, unused
measurements are discarded.

=item B<Channel> I<channel>

Send only metrics for this I<channel> name. It can appear multiple times.
By default, it shows all channels if not set.

=item B<MetricPrefix> I<prefix>

Prepends I<prefix> to the metric name.

=item B<Label> I<key> I<value>

Append the label I<Key>=I<Value> to the submitting metrics. Can appear
multiple times in the B<Device> block.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<collectd(1)>,
L<collectd.conf(5)>

=cut
