=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

ncollectd-table - Documentation of ncollectd's C<Table plugin>

=head2 Plugin C<table>

The C<table plugin> provides generic means to parse tabular data and dispatch
user specified values. Values are selected based on column numbers. For
example, this plugin may be used to get values from the Linux L<proc(5)>
filesystem or CSV (comma separated values) files.

  <Plugin table>
    <Table "/proc/slabinfo">
      MetricPrefix "slabinfo_"
      SkipLines 2
      Separator " "
      <Result>
        Type gauge
        MetricPrefix "activeobjs_"
        MetricFrom 0
        ValueFrom 1
      </Result>
      <Result>
        Type gauge
        MetricPrefix "objperslab_"
        MetricFrom 0
        ValueFrom 4
      </Result>
    </Table>
  </Plugin>

The configuration consists of one or more B<Table> blocks, each of which
configures one file to parse. Within each B<Table> block, there are one or
more B<Result> blocks, which configure which data to select and how to
interpret it.

The following options are available inside a B<Table> block:

=over 4

=item B<MetricPrefix> I<prefix>

Prepends I<prefix> to the metric name in the B<Result> block.

=item B<Label> I<key> I<value>

Append the label I<Key>=I<Value> to the submitting metrics. Can appear
multiple time in the B<Table> block.

=item B<Separator> I<string>

Any character of I<string> is interpreted as a delimiter between the different
columns of the table. A sequence of two or more contiguous delimiters in the
table is considered to be a single delimiter, i.E<nbsp>e. there cannot be any
empty columns. The plugin uses the L<strtok_r(3)> function to parse the lines
of a table - see its documentation for more details. This option is mandatory.

A horizontal tab, newline and carriage return may be specified by C<\\t>,
C<\\n> and C<\\r> respectively. Please note that the double backslashes are
required because of collectd's config parsing.

=item B<SkipLines> I<lines>

Skip the number of I<lines> at the beginning of the file.

=item B<Interval> I<seconds>

The B<Interval> option allows you to define the length of time between reads. If
this is not set, the default Interval will be used.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<collectd(1)>,
L<collectd.conf(5)>

=cut
