NCOLLECTD-PERL(5) - File Formats Manual

# NAME

**ncollectd-perl** - Documentation of ncollectd's perl plugin

# SYNOPSIS

	load-plugin perl
	plugin perl {
	    include-dir /path/to/perl/plugins
	    base-name name
	    enable-debugger [package]
	    load-plugin plugin-name
	    plugin plugin-name {
	        ...
	    }
	}

# DESCRIPTION

The **perl** plugin embeds a Perl-interpreter into collectd and provides an
interface to ncollectd's plugin system.
This makes it possible to write plugins for collectd in Perl.

**include-dir**&zwnj;* *&zwnj;*/path/to/perl/plugins*&zwnj;*&zwnj;*

> Adds */path/to/perl/plugins* to the **@INC** array.
> This is the same as using the -IDir command line option
> or use lib Dir in the source code.
> Please note that it only has effect on plugins loaded after this option.

**base-name**&zwnj;* *&zwnj;*name*&zwnj;*&zwnj;*

> Prepends *name*&zwnj;**::** to all plugin names loaded after this option.
> This is provided for convenience to keep plugin names short.
> All Perl-based plugins provided with the **ncollectd** distributions
> reside in the NCollectd::Plugins namespace.

**enable-debugger** \[*package*]

> Run collectd under the control of the Perl source debugger.
> If *package* is not the empty string, control is passed to the debugging,
> profiling, or tracing module installed as Devel::*package*.
> A comma-separated list of options may be specified after the "=" character.
> Please note that you may not leave out the *package* option even if you
> specify **""**.
> This is the same as using the -d:Package command line option.

> See **perldebug** for detailed documentation about debugging Perl.

> This option does not prevent collectd from daemonizing, so you should start
> ncollectd with the -f command line option.
> Else you will not be able to use the command line driven interface of the
> debugger.

**load-plugin** *plugin-name*

> Loads the Perl plugin *plugin-name*.
> This does basically the same as use would do in a Perl program.
> As a side effect, the first occurrence of this option causes the
> Perl-interpreter to be initialized.

**plugin** *plugin-name*

> This block may be used to pass on configuration settings to a Perl plugin.
> The configuration is converted into a config-item data type which is passed
> to the registered configuration callback.
> See below for details about the config-item data type and how to register
> callbacks.

> The *plugin-name* identifies the callback.
> It is used literally and independent of the **base-name** setting.

# WRITING YOUR OWN PLUGINS

Writing your own plugins is quite simple.
Ncollectd manages plugins by means of dispatch functions which call
the appropriate **callback functions** registered by the plugins.
Any plugin basically consists of the implementation of these callback
functions and initializing code which registers the functions with
collectd.
See the section "EXAMPLES" below for a really basic example.
The following types of **callback functions** are known to ncollectd
(all of them are optional):

**configuration functions**

> This type of functions is called during configuration if an appropriate
> **plugin** block has been encountered.
> It is called once for each **plugin** block which matches the name of
> the callback as provided with the **plugin\_register** method - see below.

**init functions**

> This type of functions is called once after loading the module and before any
> calls to the read and write functions.
> It should be used to initialize the internal state of the plugin
> (e. g. open sockets, ...).
> If the return value evaluates to **false**, the plugin will be disabled.

**read functions**

> This type of function is used to collect the actual data.
> It is called once per interval (see the **interval** configuration option
> of collectd).
> Usually it will call **plugin\_dispatch\_values** to dispatch the values to
> collectd which will pass them on to all registered **write functions**.
> If the return value evaluates to **false** the plugin will be skipped for
> an increasing amount of time until it returns **true** again.

**write functions**

> This type of function is used to write the dispatched values.
> It is called once for each call to **plugin\_dispatch\_values**.

**log functions**

> This type of function is used to pass messages of plugins or the daemon itself
> to the user.

**notification function**

> This type of function is used to act upon notifications.
> In general, a notification is a status message that may be associated with a
> data instance.
> Usually, a notification is generated by the daemon or any plugin.

**shutdown functions**

> This type of function is called once before the daemon shuts down.
> It should be used to clean up the plugin (e.g. close sockets, ...).

Any function (except log functions) may set the $@ variable to describe
errors in more detail.
The message will be passed on to the user using ncollectd's logging mechanism.

See the documentation of the **plugin\_register** method in the section
**METHODS** below for the number and types of arguments passed to each
**callback function**.
This section also explains how to register **callback functions** with
ncollectd.

To enable a plugin, copy it to a place where Perl can find it (i. e. a
directory listed in the @INC array) just as any other Perl plugin
and add an appropriate **load-plugin** option to the configuration file.
After restarting collectd you're done.

# DATA TYPES

The following complex types are used to pass values between the Perl plugin
and ncollectd:

**Config-Item**

> A config-item is one structure which keeps the information provided in the
> configuration file.
> The array of children keeps one entry for each configuration option.
> Each such entry is another config-item structure, which may nest further
> if nested blocks are used.

> >     {
> >         key      =&gt; key,
> >         values   =&gt; \[ val1, val2, ... ],
> >         children =&gt; \[ { ... }, { ... }, ... ]
> >     }

**Metric Family**

> A data-set is a list of one or more data-sources.
> Each data-source defines a name, type, min- and max-value and the data-set
> wraps them up into one structure.
> The general layout looks like this:

> >   \[{
> >     name =&gt; 'data\_source\_name',
> >     type =&gt; DS\_TYPE\_COUNTER || DS\_TYPE\_GAUGE || DS\_TYPE\_DERIVE,
> >     min  =&gt; value || undef,
> >     max  =&gt; value || undef
> >   }, ...]

**Value-List**

> A value-list is one structure which features an array of values and fields to
> identify the values, i. e. time and host, plugin name and plugin-instance as
> well as a type and type-instance.
> Since the "type" is not included in the value-list but is passed as an extra
> argument, the general layout looks like this:

> >   {
> >     values =&gt; \[123, 0.5],
> >     time   =&gt; time (),
> >     interval =&gt; plugin\_get\_interval (),
> >     host   =&gt; $hostname\_g,
> >     plugin =&gt; 'myplugin',
> >     type   =&gt; 'myplugin',
> >     plugin\_instance =&gt; '',
> >     type\_instance   =&gt; ''
> >   }

**Notification**

> A notification is one structure defining the severity, time and message of the
> status message as well as an identification of a data instance.
> Also, it includes an optional list of user-defined meta information
> represented as (name, value) pairs:

> >   {
> >       severity =&gt; NOTIF\_FAILURE || NOTIF\_WARNING || NOTIF\_OKAY,
> >       time     =&gt; time (),
> >       name     =&gt; 'notification\_name',
> >       labels      =&gt; \[ { name =&gt; &lt;name&gt;, value =&gt; &lt;value&gt; }, ... ]
> >       annotations =&gt; \[ { name =&gt; &lt;name&gt;, value =&gt; &lt;value&gt; }, ... ]
> >   }

# METHODS

The following functions provide the C-interface to Perl-modules.
They are exported by the ":plugin" export tag (see the section "EXPORTS" below).

**plugin\_register** (*type*, *name*, *data*)

> Registers a callback-function or data-set.

> *Type* can be one of:

> *	**TYPE\_CONFIG**

> *	**TYPE\_INIT**

> *	**TYPE\_READ**

> *	**TYPE\_WRITE**

> *	**TYPE\_LOG**

> *	**TYPE\_NOTIF**

> *	**TYPE\_SHUTDOWN**

> *name* is the name of the callback-function or the type of the data-set,
> depending on the value of *type*.
> (Please note that the type of the data-set is the value passed as *name*
> here and has nothing to do with the *type* argument which simply tells
> **plugin\_register** what is being registered.)

> The last argument, *data*, is either a function name or an array-reference.
> If *type* is **TYPE\_DATASET**, then the *data* argument must be an
> array-reference which points to an array of hashes.
> Each hash describes one data-set.
> For the exact layout see **Data-Set** above.
> Please note that there is a large number of predefined data-sets available
> in the **types.db** file which are automatically registered with ncollectd
> \- see types.db(5) for a description of the format of this file.

> **Note**: Using **plugin\_register** to register a data-set is deprecated.
> Add the new type to a custom types.db(5) file instead.
> This functionality might be removed in a future version of ncollectd.

> If the *type* argument is any of the other types (**TYPE\_INIT**,
> **TYPE\_READ**, ...) then *data* is expected to be a function name.
> If the name is not prefixed with the plugin's package name collectd will add
> it automatically.
> The interface slightly differs from the C interface (which expects a function
> pointer instead) because Perl does not support to share references to
> subroutines between threads.

> These functions are called in the various stages of the daemon (see the
> section "WRITING YOUR OWN PLUGINS" above) and are passed the following
> arguments:

> **TYPE\_CONFIG**

> > The only argument passed is *config-item*.
> > See above for the layout of this data type.

> **TYPE\_INIT**

> **TYPE\_READ**

> **TYPE\_SHUTDOWN**

> > No arguments are passed.

> **TYPE\_WRITE**

> > The arguments passed are *type*, *data-set*, and *value-list*.
> > *type* is a string.
> > For the layout of *data-set* and *value-list* see above.

> **TYPE\_FLUSH**

> > The arguments passed are *timeout* and *identifier*.
> > *timeout* indicates that only data older than *timeout* seconds is
> > to be flushed.
> > *identifier* specifies which values are to be flushed.

> **TYPE\_LOG**

> > The arguments are *log-level* and *message*.
> > The log level is small for important messages and high for less important
> > messages.
> > The least important level is **LOG\_DEBUG**, the most important level is
> > **LOG\_ERR**.
> > In between there are (from least to most important): **LOG\_INFO**,
> > **LOG\_NOTICE**, and **LOG\_WARNING**.
> > *message* is simply a string **without** a newline at the end.

> **TYPE\_NOTIF**

> > The only argument passed is *notification*.
> > See above for the layout of this data type.

**plugin\_unregister** (*type*, *plugin*)

> Removes a callback or data-set from collectd's internal list of functions.

**plugin\_dispatch\_values** (*metric-family*)

> Submits a *value-list* to the daemon.
> If the data-set identified by *value-list*-&gt;{*type*}
> is found (and the number of values matches the number of data-sources) then the
> type, data-set and value-list is passed to all write-callbacks that are
> registered with the daemon.

**plugin\_dispatch\_notification** (*notification*)

> Submits a *notification* to the daemon which will then pass it to all
> notification-callbacks that are registered.

**plugin\_log (**&zwnj;*log-level*&zwnj;**, **&zwnj;*message*&zwnj;**)**

> Submits a *message* of level *log-level* to ncollectd's
> logging mechanism.
> The message is passed to all log-callbacks that are registered with ncollectd.

**ERROR**, **WARNING**, **NOTICE**, **INFO**, **DEBUG** (*message*)

> Wrappers around **plugin\_log**, using **LOG\_ERR**, **LOG\_WARNING**,
> **LOG\_NOTICE**, **LOG\_INFO** and **LOG\_DEBUG** respectively as
> *log-level*.

**plugin\_get\_interval** ()

> Returns the interval of the current plugin as a floating point number in
> seconds.
> This value depends on the interval configured within the
> load-plugin perl block or the global interval (see
> ncollectd.conf(5)
> for details).

# GLOBAL VARIABLES

**$hostname\_g**

> As the name suggests this variable keeps the hostname of the system collectd
> is running on.
> The value might be influenced by the **hostname** or **fqdn-lookup**
> configuration options (see
> ncollectd.conf(5)
> for details).

**$interval\_g**

> This variable keeps the interval in seconds in which the read functions are
> queried (see the **interval** configuration option).

> **Note:** This variable should no longer be used in favor of
> plugin\_get\_interval() (see above).
> This function takes any plugin-specific interval settings into account
> (see the **interval** option of **load-plugin**
> ncollectd.conf(5)
> for details).

Any changes to these variables will be globally visible in ncollectd.

# EXPORTS

By default no symbols are exported.
However, the following export tags are available
(**:all** will export all of them):

*	**:plugin**

	*	**plugin\_register** ()

	*	**plugin\_unregister** ()

	*	**plugin\_dispatch\_values** ()

	*	**plugin\_flush** ()

	*	**plugin\_flush\_one** ()

	*	**plugin\_flush\_all** ()

	*	**plugin\_dispatch\_notification** ()

	*	**plugin\_log** ()

*	**:types**

	*	**TYPE\_CONFIG**

	*	**TYPE\_INIT**

	*	**TYPE\_READ**

	*	**TYPE\_WRITE**

	*	**TYPE\_FLUSH**

	*	**TYPE\_SHUTDOWN**

	*	**TYPE\_LOG**

*	**:log**

	*	**ERROR** ()

	*	**WARNING** ()

	*	**NOTICE** ()

	*	**INFO** ()

	*	**DEBUG** ()

	*	**LOG\_ERR**

	*	**LOG\_WARNING**

	*	**LOG\_NOTICE**

	*	**LOG\_INFO**

	*	**LOG\_DEBUG**

*	**:notif**

	*	**NOTIF\_FAILURE**

	*	**NOTIF\_WARNING**

	*	**NOTIF\_OKAY**

*	**:globals**

	*	**$hostname\_g**

	*	**$interval\_g**

# EXAMPLES

Any Perl plugin will start similar to:

	    package NCollectd::Plugins::FooBar;
	
	    use strict;
	    use warnings;
	
	    use NCollectd qw( :all );

A very simple read function might look like:

	    sub foobar_read
	    {
	      my $vl = { plugin => 'foobar', type => 'gauge' };
	      $vl->{'values'} = [ rand(42) ];
	      plugin_dispatch_values ($vl);
	      return 1;
	    }

A very simple write function might look like:

	    sub foobar_write
	    {
	      my ($type, $ds, $vl) = @_;
	      for (my $i = 0; $i < scalar (@$ds); ++$i) {
	        print "$vl->{'plugin'} ($vl->{'type'}): $vl->{'values'}->[$i]0;
	      }
	      return 1;
	    }

To register those functions with collectd:

	    plugin_register (TYPE_READ, "foobar", "foobar_read");
	    plugin_register (TYPE_WRITE, "foobar", "foobar_write");

See the section "DATA TYPES" above for a complete documentation of the data
types used by the read, write and match functions.

# CAVEATS

ncollectd is heavily multi-threaded.
Each collectd thread accessing the perl plugin will be mapped to a Perl
interpreter thread (see
threads((3perl))
).
Any such thread will be created and destroyed transparently and on-the-fly.

Hence, any plugin has to be thread-safe if it provides several entry points
from collectd (i. e. if it registers more than one callback or if a
registered callback may be called more than once in parallel).
Please note that no data is shared between threads by default.
You have to use the **threads::shared** module to do so.

Each function name registered with collectd has to be available before the
first thread has been created (i. e. basically at compile time).
This basically means that hacks (yes, I really consider this to be a hack)
like \*foo = bar; plugin\_register (TYPE\_READ, "plugin", "foo");
most likely will not work.
This is due to the fact that the symbol table is not shared across
different threads.

Each plugin is usually only loaded once and kept in memory for performance
reasons.
Therefore, END blocks are only executed once when collectd shuts down.
You should not rely on END blocks anyway - use **shutdown functions**
instead.

The perl plugin exports the internal API of collectd which is considered
unstable and subject to change at any time.
We try hard to not break backwards compatibility in the Perl API during
the life cycle of one major release.
However, this cannot be guaranteed at all times.
Watch out for warnings dispatched by the perl plugin after upgrades.

# SEE ALSO

ncollectd(1),
perl(1),
ncollectd.conf(5)

