=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

ncollectd-ping - Documentation of ncollectd's C<Ping plugin>

=head2 Plugin C<ping>

The I<Ping> plugin starts a new thread which sends ICMP "ping" packets to the
configured hosts periodically and measures the network latency. Whenever the
C<read> function of the plugin is called, it submits the average latency, the
standard deviation and the drop rate for each host.

Available configuration options:

=over 4

=item B<Host> I<IP-address>

Host to ping periodically. This option may be repeated several times to ping
multiple hosts.

=item B<Interval> I<Seconds>

Sets the interval in which to send ICMP echo packets to the configured hosts.
This is B<not> the interval in which metrics are read from the plugin but the
interval in which the hosts are "pinged". Therefore, the setting here should be
smaller than or equal to the global B<Interval> setting. Fractional times, such
as "1.24" are allowed.

Default: B<1.0>

=item B<Timeout> I<Seconds>

Time to wait for a response from the host to which an ICMP packet had been
sent. If a reply was not received after I<Seconds> seconds, the host is assumed
to be down or the packet to be dropped. This setting must be smaller than the
B<Interval> setting above for the plugin to work correctly. Fractional
arguments are accepted.

Default: B<0.9>

=item B<TTL> I<0-255>

Sets the Time-To-Live of generated ICMP packets.

=item B<Size> I<size>

Sets the size of the data payload in ICMP packet to specified I<size> (it
will be filled with regular ASCII pattern). If not set, default 56 byte
long string is used so that the packet size of an ICMPv4 packet is exactly
64 bytes, similar to the behaviour of normal ping(1) command.

=item B<SourceAddress> I<host>

Sets the source address to use. I<host> may either be a numerical network
address or a network hostname.

=item B<AddressFamily> I<af>

Sets the address family to use. I<af> may be "any", "ipv4" or "ipv6". This
option will be ignored if you set a B<SourceAddress>.

=item B<Device> I<name>

Sets the outgoing network device to be used. I<name> has to specify an
interface name (e.E<nbsp>g. C<eth0>). This might not be supported by all
operating systems.

=item B<MaxMissed> I<Packets>

Trigger a DNS resolve after the host has not replied to I<Packets> packets. This
enables the use of dynamic DNS services (like dyndns.org) with the ping plugin.

Default: B<-1> (disabled)

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<collectd(1)>,
L<collectd.conf(5)>

=cut
